## Context
Data Product Ownership is the long-term ownership of responsibilities to create, model, maintain, evolve, and share data as a product to meet the needs of data users. This is not be confused with data sovereignty, control of data by whom it is collected from. The ultimate sovereignty of data remains with the users, customers, or other organizations whose data is being captured and managed. Data custodianship that carry a specific and different meaning from past data management and government is not compatible with data mesh.

This leads to a distributed logical data architecture - distributed architectures are scalable but are more complex to manage. It requires a new ways of handling data interoperability and connectivity between domains.

Domain-driven data (DDD) ownership stems its origin from the works of Eric Evan's Domain-driven design. He defines a domain as "a sphere of knowledge, influence, or activity". Data Mesh attempts to extend this definition to include outcome. The domain has a specific business objective and an outcome it is optimizing for.

> This section presumes that the organization has a fair understanding of its domains, their individual outcomes and their interdependencies. How would happen if this is not defined? 

## Current State
The closest application of DDD in data platform architecture, as of today, is for source operational system to emit their business domain events and for monolith data platform to ingest them. However, beyond the point of ingestion the domain team's responsibility ends, and data responsibilities are transferred to data team. As more transformations are performed by the data team, the data become more removed from its original form, language, and intention. Here are the salient features and their limitations:
* Organization-level central modeling: Total unification of the domain models of the organization into one is neither feasible nor cost-effective.
* Silos of internal models with limited integration: This mode introduces cumbersome inter-team communication. This is similar to data silos in different applications, connected via brittle ETLs.
* No intentional modeling: This is similar to a data lake, dumping raw data into blob storage.

> This does not explain, or misrepresents what happens in lake. Once the data is dumped in lake in its raw formats, transformations are carried out with intent. It is agreeable that the ownership becomes huge on data platform teams to manage outcomes of each domain, and hence decentralization is perhaps a desired way to move forward.

## DDD's Strategic Design
DDD's strategic design embraces modeling based on multiple models each contextualized to a particular domain, called a bounded context. A bounded context is the "the delimited applicability of a particular model that gives team members a clear and shared understanding of what has to consistent and what can develop independently".

Additionally, DDD introduces the context mapping, which explicitly defines the relationship between bounded contexts, the independent models.

Data Mesh adopts the boundary of bounded contexts to individual data products - data, its models, and its ownership.

For organizations that have already adopted a microservices or domain-oriented architecture, it is relatively simpler to apply the same decomposition and modeling to their analytical data in each domain. Domain data ownership is the foundation of scale in a complex system like enterprises today.

## Domain Data Archetypes

While not exhaustive, there are three archetypes of domain-oriented data:
* Source-aligned domain data: Analytical data reflecting the business facts generated by the operational systems. This is also called a native data product. Data mesh assumes that domains are responsible for providing the truths of their business domain as source-aligned data domains. The business facts are best presented as business domain events and can be stored and served as distributed logs of time-stamped events. In addition to timed events, source-aligned domain data often needs to be provided in easily consumable historical slices, aggregated over a time interval that closely reflects the interval of change in the business domain. Data mesh clearly differentiates between the source application's operational database and its collaborating analytical data storage. While the two types of data considered separate, they are tightly integrated and owned by the same domain team.
> This would mean that domain should be responsible for originating process (operational application) and distributed via raw data (maybe in monolithic lake or domain lake). If so, they would need to build out a solid reconciliation framework.
> There should be a mechanism to determine the data quality issue right here at the point of consumption.

* Aggregate domain data: Analytical data that is an aggregate of multiple upstream domains
* Consumer-aligned domain data: Analytical data transformed to fit the needs of one or multiple specific user cases. This is also called fit-for-purpose domain data

In an organization, typically all the three archetypes can / would co-exist.





## Learnings
* How to ensure that this does not happen - As more transformations are performed by the data team, the data become more removed from its original form, language, and intention.
  * When the data is consumed in its raw format, we should be able to tag this to primary domain (which would use this data), upstream domain (domain it depends on to get the full meaning), and downstream domain (domains it would define meaning to).
  * When the data is transformed into a standardized layer, the data is structured by domain and subdomains.
* Next