- **Extreme Productivity by Robert C Pozen** #Productivity
- Organize your work into aims, objectives and targets. One way to do it is - how long it take to achieve it. Work with manager (stakeholder)
	- Aim - long time (3 years)
	- Objective - 12 to 24 months
	- Target - 3 months
- Fight procrastination with mini-deadlines
	- Decompose into Smaller manageable project
	- Build accountabilities (share with stakeholder)
- Quickly handle low priority tasks by keeping your professionalism at bay
	- OHIO principle - ONLY HANDLE IT ONCE
	- Fight the temptation to be perfect when dealing with low priority tasks
- Write with efficiency by finding structure and quiet.
	- Efficiency with structure
		- Brainstorming - whatever thoughts comes out without thinking about order or structure or importance
		- Categorization - group ideas in categories and subcategories and order them
		- Outlining - arranging your categories in a logical sequence
	- Make quiet time to focused write without being disturbed
- Product delivered matters more than time invested in it
	- Improve the culture around you
- Prioritize your private life and more flexible place to work
	- Show the stakeholder that you are reliable
	- Say NO when you have to
-
- **Getting Things Done by David Allen** #Productivity
- The Getting Things Done process helps you make intuitive decisions based on priorities
- When people get a sense of how to execute, they automatically focus on the bigger game
- When I learn to get control of my life, I can do it for the rest of my life
- Pay attention to what has my attention.. and engage with it appropriately
- Capture - collect what has your capturing your mind / idea.
	- Mind sweep - Removing things from your mind that have your attention
	- Idea to close open loops. My mind is for having ideas, not for holding them.
		- Physical In-tray (Paper pen, notebook)
		- Online In-tray (Smart phone, voicemail, etc.)
- Clarify - what it really means to you
	- What attention that is really required
	- Decision making - how and when and what are you going to do about it, if at all.
		- Is it something that is actionable? This is done during the cleaning up.
			- Yes
				- What is the very next action?
					- Will it take less than 2 minutes?
						- Yes. Do it right then.
						- No.
							- Can it be delegated? If so, delegate it.
							- Defer it and park in appropriate place (see organize below)
			- No / May be
				- Should I sending in trash?
				- Incubate - In future
				- Reference Material
- Organize - put it where it belongs
	- Defer it and park in
		- a Calendar
		- Next-actions list by categories
		- Project list (An outcome resulting from actions)
		- Waiting list where you are waiting on from someone
- Reflect - Review frequently
	- Review frequently to ensure that you have the bigger picture and that things are under control, renegotiate if you have to, to get things under control
		- Weekly Review (everything)
		- Look forward and backward on my calendar
		- Schedule time at the end of every week
- Engage - Do what needs to be done
	- Focus on the moment
	- Where do I put my focus and attention
- 2 years of implementing so it becomes a habit. If I fall off, I will come back on - sit, empty your head, make next-action decisions.
- Every conversation should include what is to be accomplished, and by what time - and someone should track those agreements. Lead by example.
-
- **The power of habit by Charles Duhigg** #Self-Improvement
- The process of turning a sequence of actions into an automatic routine is known as chunking and it forms the basis of all habit formation. Habit can be broken down into a three part loop:
	- First you sense an **external cue** - which sparks your brain activity as your brain decides which habit is appropriate for the situation
	- Next comes **routine** - the activity you are used to performing when faced with this particular cue
	- Finally you get a **reward**, a feeling of success
- Habit stick because this creates a craving
- To change a habit, substitute a routine with another, and **believe** in the change. Don't try to resist the craving, redirect it.
- Change can be achieved by focusing on keystone habits and achieving small wins.
- Willpower is the most important keystone habit. Willpower is like a muscle, it can tire. By engaging in habit that demands resolution, you can strengthen your willpower. If you are prepared situation, you can muster more willpower. If people do something on command, their willpower muscle will get tired much quicker.
- A crisis can change organizational habits, and sometimes required.
- Companies take advantage of habits in their marketing. New habits or products are far more likely to be accepted if they don't seem new.
- Movement are born from strong ties (first hand relationship with plenty of people from across different social segments of our community), peer pressure (via week ties - which are acquaintances rather than friends) and new habits.
- We bear responsibilities for changing our habits.