# Rust 1.59.0

## Inline Assembly

The Rust language now supports inline assembly. This enables many applications that need very low-level control over their execution, or access to specialized machine instructions. In this version, it would support x86 and x86-64, ARM, AArch64 and RISC-V.

You can see more examples of inline assembly in [Rust By Example](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/unsafe/asm.html), and find more detailed documentation in the [reference](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/inline-assembly.html).

## Destructuring assignment

Tuple, slice, and struct patterns can be used in left-hand side of an assignment.

```rust
let (a, b, c, d, e);

(a, b) = (1, 2);
[c, .., d, _] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
Struct { e, .. } = Struct { e: 5, f: 3 };

assert_eq!([1, 2, 1, 4, 5], [a, b, c, d, e]);
```

This makes assignment more consistent with let bindings, which have long supported the same thing.
> Note that destructuring assignments with operators such as += are not allowed.

## Const generics defaults and interleaving

Generic types can now specify default values for their const generics. For example.
For example, you can now write the following:

```rust
struct ArrayStorage<T, const N: usize = 2> {
    arr: [T; N],
}

impl<T> ArrayStorage<T> {
    fn new(a: T, b: T) -> ArrayStorage<T> {
        ArrayStorage {
        arr: [a, b],
        }
    }
}
```

## Future incompatibility warning

Cargo now shows you warnings when a dependency will be rejected by a future version of Rust. After running ```cargo build``` or ```cargo check```, you might see:

```text
warning: the following packages contain code that will be rejected by a future version of Rust: old_dep v0.1.0
note: to see what the problems were, use the option `--future-incompat-report`, or run `cargo report future-incompatibilities --id 1`
```

You can run the ```cargo report``` command mentioned in the warning to see a full report of the code that will be rejected. This gives you time to upgrade your dependency before it breaks your build.

## Creating stripped binaries

While it has always been possible to strip unnecessary information like ```debuginfo``` from binaries you distribute manually after the binary is created, cargo and rustc now support stripping when the binary is linked. To enable this, add the following to your Cargo.toml:

```toml
[profile.release]
strip = "debuginfo"
```

This causes `debuginfo` to be stripped from release binaries. You can also supply ```"symbols"``` or just ```true``` to strip all symbol information where supported.

## Incremental compilation off by default

Hopefully a temporary change due to bug [94124](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/94124)

## Stabilized APIs

[List](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2022/02/24/Rust-1.59.0.html#stabilized-apis)

There are some changes to rust, cargo and clippy as well.
https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/master/RELEASES.md#version-1590-2022-02-24
https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#cargo-159-2022-02-24
https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#rust-159
