# Core concepts in Block Chain

## Encryption
Two-way function

It is a means of securing data by encoding it

Data encryption is the process that translates the data from its original form to another form. The original form of data is known as plaintext and the encrypted form of data is known as ciphertext. The ciphertext is decrypted by a secret key.

There are two types of encryption. Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption.

Asymmetric Encryption - public key and private key.

* Create the cipher text using public key, and I can decipher it using private key. Example - Message interaction like Whatsapp
* Create the cipher text using private key, and I can decipher it using public key. Example - Digital signature

We will use Asymmetric encryption in Blockchain.

## Public-Key Cryptography
* A core technology of Blockchain
* Based upon a pair of public and private keys 
  * Public keys are distributed publicly (A public key is cryptographic code that permits users to receive cryptocurrency into their accounts / wallets)
  * Private keys are kept secret with the user (A private key is a 256-bit alphanumeric secure code that enables the holder to make cryptocurrency transactions and prove ownership of their holdings)
* Blockchain account credentials
  * Private Key - Used for sending transaction information
  * Public Address - Used for receiving transaction information 
* Is a one-way function. You can derive public key from the private key, but not vice versa.
* Public Address are transformed from the public key
* Private key leak can lead to complete cryptocurrency takeover and transfer
* Private Key Example: L34EXrFCuxQCorfE66sxQe8Tyh71SyU8cc9z7HnbEWwW8YsgbvTw
* Blockchain like Bitcoin and Ethereum use ECC Algorithm. ECC 0r Elliptic Curve Cryptography is a key based technique for encrypting data. It is an alternative technique to RSA, which is a powerful cryptography approach. It generates security between key pairs for public key encryption by using the mathematics of elliptic curves. ECC focuses on pairs of private and public keys for decryption and encryption of web traffic.

> In cryptography, encryption is the process of encoding information. In encryption, the information is converted into a secret code that hides the information's true meaning.
> In cryptography, decryption is the process of conversion of encoded information into its original format.

## Digital Signatures

A digital signature is a modern alternative to signing documents. It uses an advanced mathematical technique to evaluate the integrity and authenticity of digital messages and documents. It guarantees that the contents of a message are not changed or tampered while communicating digitally.

* Similar to real world signatures
* Proof of identity and agreement
* Use cryptography - More secure than handwritten signatures
* Sender uses private key to sign messages digitally
* Recipient verifies using sender’s public key
* An SSL certificate is an example of a digital signature

### Use of digital signature in Blockchain
* Every blockchain transaction is digitally signed by the sender using their private key 
* Ensures user authenticity and transaction data integrity
* User authenticity: Proof that transaction actually originated from the claimant 
* Transaction data integrity: Transaction message data doesn't get modified during the process
* Example: Alice wants to pay Bob $500
  * User authentication: Message was generated by Alice herself
  * Transaction data integrity: Message has not been modified either in the amount (Alice wants to pay $500, not any other amount), or the recipient (Alice wants to pay Bob, not anyone else)

> The advantage of registering a digital signature with blockchain is that it helps safeguard your online identity and ensure that it is legitimate and authenticated.

## hash function
Takes an arbitrary length input and returns a unique deterministic fixed length output. It is a one way function - you can generate output but cannot regenerate the original value from the hash output. There are many hash engines like Hashing engines supported: md2, md4, md5, sha1, sha224, sha256, sha384, sha512, ripemd128, ripemd160, ripemd256, ripemd320, whirlpool, tiger128,3, tiger160,3, tiger192,3, tiger128,4, tiger160,4, tiger192,4, snefru, snefru256, gost, gost-crypto, adler32, crc32, crc32b, fnv132, fnv1a32, fnv164, fnv1a64, joaat, haval128,3, haval160,3, haval192,3, haval224,3, haval256,3, haval128,4, haval160,4, haval192,4, haval224,4, haval256,4, haval128,5, haval160,5, haval192,5, haval224,5, haval256,5, etc.

[Online Hash Password](https://www.tools4noobs.com/online_tools/hash/)


Rainbow tables - is a precompiled tables of passwords and its hash values. To avoid, some companies like Google, will add some salt to the password - this is random generated value based on some algorithm and now this is what is hashed and saved.

In summary -
* Hash function - maps data of arbitrary size to fixed-size values.
* Can be used for retrieval and verification.
* One-way function - getting data back from hash is not possible
* Deterministic - Hash function will always return the same hash for the same data
* Fixed sized output - SHA256 always outputs a 256-bit hash, input can be of any size
* High Variability - Even a single bit change in input should lead to high variability in output
* Compressed storage - Feasibility of storing fixed-size hash values, mapped to actual data 
* Bitcoin uses SHA256, whereas Ethereum uses a variant of SHA-3 (KECCAK256). SHA-3 is one of the most secure and efficient hashing algorithms developed to provide a random mapping from a string of binary data to a fixed-size message and achieve various security properties.

> In the blockchain, decentralization refers to the transfer of control and decision-making from a centralized system (individual, organization, or group) to a distributed network.
> One-way functions are basic tools for cryptography, authentication, personal identification, and other data security applications and are intended to be used to protect data against unintentional or intentional modifications.

More reading at [baeldung](https://www.baeldung.com/java-password-hashing)

## Merkle Tree
* A data structure with every leaf node as a cryptographic hash.
* Non-leaf nodes are typically labelled with the hash of their child nodes’ hashes
* Root hash summarizes all the hashes
* Verifying the root hash will verify all the nodes in the tree
* In Blockchain
  * Merkle tree is used for verification of transactions
  * Each leaf node is a transaction hash stored within a block
* Can be used to transparently verify a transaction’s participation in a block
* Always binary at every level - Two children nodes for each node

### Merkle Tree in Bitcoin
* Each bitcoin block has the Merkle root in the block header.
* This is used to verify the block contents and consistency across multiple ledgers.
* Across ledger copies on different nodes, this value should match for each block.
* Even a minor variation would lead to drastically different path including the root hash.

State root is a root hash of a specialized kind of merkle tree which saves the entire state of the system such as a contract storage and code, all account balances, and account nonce are inside.


[Difference between Hash and Encryption](https://www.baeldung.com/cs/hashing-vs-encryption)



